.title The Haunted House

.page start
You're walking home from school one afternoon in January. It's 
late afternoon because you stayed after school for coding club, 
and it's already getting dark. As usual, your route takes you 
past that creepy abandoned house on your street.

You hunch your shoulders and start to hurry past, but suddenly 
a child's voice calls out from inside, "Help! Help!"
.end

.page back_yard
You walk through the overgrown yard to the back of the house,
hoping to learn something without actually going inside.
However, all you can see of the house are pealing paint and
darkened windows.

No wiser, you continue around to the front of the house and
face the front door.
.end

.page chicken
Feeling guilty, you pretend not to hear anything and rush home.

You make it home safe and sound, and you never hear what 
happened in the house that night. But in moments of doubt, you 
still hear that child's voice, and wonder if you might have 
prevented some horrible crime.
.end

.page front_door
The front door creaks loudly as you open it, and dust falls 
from the ceiling. You sneeze, stirring up more dust, then 
venture inside. The only light is from the open door behind 
you, but fortunately you have a small flashlight in your 
pocket. You pull it out and turn it on.
.end

.page entry
You're in a dark paneled entry way. Behind you is the front 
door. To your right is an opening leading to what appears 
to be a kitchen. Ahead is a large room, which your puny 
flashlight does not illuminate.
.end

.page kitchen
You find yourself in an old kitchen with a large cast-iron 
stove and many cabinets. You quickly search the cabinets, 
hoping to find something useful -- a knife perhaps -- but 
they're empty of everything except cobwebs.

Through a partially-open door in the back of the kitchen, 
you can see stairs leading down. Perhaps they lead to a 
cellar.
.end

.page cellar
Pushing your way through cobwebs, you walk down the stairs 
into the dark cellar. At the bottom, your flashlight catches 
something white ahead on the stone floor. As you continue 
forward to investigate, the cobwebs around you stir with a 
sudden breeze from behind. You hear the door at the top of 
the stairs slam shut and a bolt slide ominously into place.

Now you recognize the white object on the floor: a bone,
part of a small human skeleton. In a panic, you rush back 
up the stairs to try the door, but it won't budge. You call 
out, but the darkness seems to muffle your voice. Still you 
cry desperately for help, continuing even as your flashlight 
dims and goes out. You cry out through endless hours of 
darkness, growing increasingly parched until your voice 
emerges only as a croak. At last you cry no more.
.end

.page kitty
Mustering your courage, you call out loudly, "Hello! Does 
anyone need any help?"

After first you hear nothing, but then you hear a voice 
nearby to your left. Aiming your flashlight there, you see 
a small door, which you had missed before because it blends 
into the dark panelling -- a closet perhaps.

Cautiously, you open the door, then laugh as a cat emerges, 
meowing pitiably. It was only a cat you heard all along! 
You let the cat outside and continue home, relieved to be 
spared any further adventure.
.end

.page main_room
You're in what must once have been a very elegant room. 
Ahead, a grand staircase leads upstairs. Just below the 
stairs is a very large grandfather clock. Off to the 
side is a grand piano.
.end

.page upstairs
At the top of the stairs is a long hallway with doors on 
either side. Heart pounding, you tiptoe down the hall, 
peaking into each of the rooms. You see only rotting 
bedroom furniture and thick dust, long undisturbed.

No one can have been up here for ages, you decide. The 
voice must have come from somewhere else, unless you 
imagined it. You head back down the stairs to the large
room with the grandfather clock and the piano.
.end

.page clock
You take a closer look at the grandfather clock. It's not 
running, of course, but you notice something strange. 
Unlike everything else in the room, the clock is free of 
dust. Could it be concealing some clue?

You open the glass door in the front of the clock. Driven 
by some impulse you don't understand, you start the pendulum 
swinging. Suddenly, the mechanism springs to life! The 
weights begin descending, and the hands start moving 
rapidly -- backwards!

A gust of wind makes the hairs on the back of your neck 
stand on end. You look up, and a pale light draws you eyes 
to the top of the stairs. There stands a small figure, a 
child. This must be the child you heard from outside, for 
now he calls out again, "Help me!" in a voice that seems to 
come from a great distance. The hilt of a knife protrudes 
from the child's chest, but there is no blood. Indeed the 
child seems utterly pale and bloodless, and looking closer 
you find you can see right through him.
.end

.page ghost_talk
Supressing the tremor in our voice, you say to the child,
"Are you OK? Can I help you?"

The ghostly child looks at you and walks slowly down the
stairs. You back away, trying to keep some distance. At
the bottom of the stairs, the child turns left and walks
towards the corner of the room to your right.
.end

.page ghost_follow
As you approach the child, he passes right through the
front wall of the room. Close inspection reveals a door,
cleverly concealed in the panelling. You've heard that
old houses sometimes have hidden side passages used by
servants. This must be one of those.

You pull open the door and walk through a narrow passage,
emerging into the kitchen. You can see the child to your
left through an open door. He is on his way downstairs,
perhaps to a cellar. On your right is an opening that
leads to the front entrance.
.end

.page ghost_cellar
You follow the child downstairs and find him in the
corner of the cellar looking down. At his feet is a small
human skeleton, a child's skeleton.

"It's you, isn't it?" you say, "Someone killed you and
hid your body down here."

The child looks at you and nods. You promise to find out 
what happened and make sure he's properly buried. The 
child smiles for the first time and fades away. The room 
suddenly feels warmer, and you find that you are no 
longer scared.

The next day, you report what you found to the police,
omitting any mention of ghosts. You learn that a child
lived in that house with his mother and stepfather many
years ago. Soon after the mother died, the stepfather
reported the child missing, claiming he had run away.
He was never heard from again.

You attend a small funeral for the child a week later.
It is a sad occasion, but you are happy to know that
the boy's spirit has at last found peace.
.end

.page ghost_run
In terror, you run for the front door with the child's 
voice crying out behind you. You make it outside and run 
across the front yard, finally looking over your shoulder 
as you reach the sidewalk. You see the child standing in 
the doorway with a ghostly arm outstretched. No farther 
would he follow, it seems. Except in dreams. He still 
haunts you in your dreams.
.end

.links start
Ignore the voice and continue home.=chicken
Run up to the front door and go in.=front_door
Walk around back.=back_yard

.links back_yard
Chicken out and continue home.=chicken
Open the front door and go in.=front_door

.links front_door
Next=entry

.links entry
Go into the kitchen.=kitchen
Continue ahead into the large room.=main_room
Call out.=kitty

.links kitchen
Go down the stairs.=cellar
Return to the entry way.=entry

.links main_room
Go up the stairs.=upstairs
Inspect the grandfather clock.=clock
Return to the entry way.=entry

.links upstairs
Inspect the grandfather clock.=clock
Return to the entry way.=entry

.links clock
Try to talk to the child.=ghost_talk
Run away.=ghost_run

.links ghost_talk
Follow the child.=ghost_follow
Run away.=ghost_run

.links ghost_follow
Follow the child downstairs.=ghost_cellar
Run away.=ghost_run
